C Interview Questions

Given a situation, identify the data structure you will use. You need to justify the data structure chosen.
OOPS concepts
what are the C file operations explain ?
What are the changes to be done in the program if it has to run in multi-threading environment?
if mutex creates overhead because of big critical section, how to solve it?
what are the different storage classes in Call
can we return a static pointer from a function 
where are string literals stored in C 
explain the memory segment of a C program
Sample Questions Asked:
Layer2 functioning
ARP
For ipv6 which protocol is used for finding mac address (NDP)
Layer 3 Packet forwarding
IP Fragmentation happens at which layer
TCP Segmentation is based on which parameter (MSS)
TCP Layer Questions 
Brief about TCP 3 way handshake mechanism (Mostly questions asked in TCP Layer) 
Why Sliding window protocol is required and its functionality
Congestion Control
Retransmission process and timer value ?
What is TCP Wait State?
TCP Window size is in bytes or what ?
TCP Windowing mechanism ?
TCP Active open and Passive open modes ?
Default Window Size
C Questions 
Structure padding and alignment why it requires
Memory Regions 
HEAP/Stack 
Where Global variable gets stored
Function Pointer usage
Kernel Questions 
Multithreading Questions
Why do we need NAT?
What is Virtual Memory?
Why do we need data structures? Diff b/w structures and LL.
What are AVL trees?
What are Balanced trees?
How does Linux boot? Explain in detail including device drivers, file system and memory initialization.
How do you detect deadlock? How do you prevent Deadlock?
Which IPC mechanisms have you used/implemented?
Explain blocking and non-blocking calls?
What are synchronous and asynchronous calls?
Socket calls used at server and client side?
Why do we need to bind the address?
How do you delete nth node? Don’t use temp variable to copy data, instead adjust only the links.
How do you implement a double linked list? What is the advantage of it?
Assume 1 process consisting of 200 threads. How do you manage memory leakage?
How do you store MAC address? How do you display the same? Write 2 different functions for the same.
When you google, how internally packet exchanges happen? Explain in detail from the beginning.
What do you mean by endianess of a system? How do you find if the given m/c is little endian or big endian? 
Sort a given linked list
Why do we use volatile keyword?
Apart from SNMP, which other n/w management protocols exists?
In SNMP, how do you inform the NMS about the events?
In IPv4 we have subnet mask, like wise in IPv6 what do we have?
Which are the different IPv6 addresses?
When writing socket programs for TCP and UDP, what are the difference do you find?
What is proxy DNS?
Do we need NAT for IPv6?
How do you DNAT an incoming packet?
How do you get MAC address of neighboring host?
Can you change the TYPE of a published MIB’s instance?
How does the ordering takes place in OID? Who does this?
Can we bind both IPv4 and IPv6 address to a socket?
What does accept call return? 
Questions related to Basic Data Structures (Linked-List, Tree Manipulation etc).
Questions related to Process Stack (Field descriptions).
Virtual Memory Concept.
Difference between Process & Threads.
IPC Mechanisms.
Semaphore & Mutex.
The API'S used in a Socket Call.
SELECT Call.
Live Bugs which you fixed.
Makefile concept and explain?
Why we need the data structure?
Explain the linked list concepts
Write the program to add and delete the linked list
Write the program to sort the list of elements or linked list
Explain the concepts of AVL tree and draw the AVL tree structure
How will you debug the memory related issues?(Note : Interviewer will give some scenarios for memory leak or segmentation fault issues)
What is a process? 
How two process will access the same data, Explain what are the system calls are used.
What is ARP and why we need ARP?
Explain the DHCP functionality
Hows memory organisation in Linux.
How to detect the memory leak in huge module .
Write a C program to reverse the string "This is my home" AS "home my is this".Implement using stack.
Write code for node deletion in a doubly linked list
Consider 2 strings "abcdef" and "cde". Check whether cde is present in abcdef or not. If yes, replace cde with *** in the first string.
Generic socket programming in C. (explanation of the system calls)
Code to explain usage of function pointers
Theoritical explanation of Critical Section, mutex and condition variables
Small code snippet questions based on static and extern variables.
Small code snippet questions based on malloc.
There is below kind of input. This input can be in the form of file or array or list.
How to sort this. Write the prototype for the function to sort this.

5	c
8	d
1	a
3	b


What is output of below code and what is the effect of endianness on this code.
main()
{ 
short int c = 0x1234;
f(&c);
printf(“%d”,c);
}

f(unsigned char *p)
{
                *p = 0x0a;
}
Design of a priority queue.
If there are only 3 priorities.
If there are thousands of priorities.
Write your own function for memcpy. And consider all the error conditions. 
Now write all the unit test cases.
Rules for Makefile. 
Any debugger used. Just the basics about this.
Generic socket programming in C. (explanation of the system calls)
Theoritical explanation of Critical Section, mutex and condition variables
Small code snippet questions based on static and extern variables.
Small code snippet questions based on malloc.
Brush up all C basics/fundamentals. Should be able to write the code
Brush up multi threading, Linked Lists (Inserting node in sorted order, queue etc..should be able to write code)
Be clear with what you have done and what your are doing – Design, protocols etc
Previous project lifecycle and my role in that.(SRS->HLD->DLD+Testcase preparation->coding->unittesting->Release to testing team).
Concepts of various data structures in C(Theoretically explain  all linear and nonlinear data structures).
May ask about knowledge in any scripting language(pearl or python).

 

