C Interview Questions

Given a situation, identify the data structure you will use. You need to justify the data structure chosen.
OOPS concepts
what are the C file operations explain ?
ANS: Refer to FILE/IO

What are the changes to be done in the program if it has to run in multi-threading environment?

if mutex creates overhead because of big critical section, how to solve it?
what are the different storage classes in Call
can we return a static pointer from a function 
where are string literals stored in C 
explain the memory segment of a C program
Sample Questions Asked:
Layer2 functioning
ARP
For ipv6 which protocol is used for finding mac address (NDP)
Layer 3 Packet forwarding
IP Fragmentation happens at which layer
TCP Segmentation is based on which parameter (MSS)
TCP Layer Questions 
Brief about TCP 3 way handshake mechanism (Mostly questions asked in TCP Layer) 
Why Sliding window protocol is required and its functionality
Congestion Control
Retransmission process and timer value ?
What is TCP Wait State?
TCP Window size is in bytes or what ?
TCP Windowing mechanism ?
TCP Active open and Passive open modes ?
Default Window Size
C Questions 
Structure padding and alignment why it requires
Memory Regions 
HEAP/Stack 
Where Global variable gets stored
Function Pointer usage
Kernel Questions 
Multithreading Questions
Why do we need NAT?
What is Virtual Memory?
Why do we need data structures? Diff b/w structures and LL.
What are AVL trees?
What are Balanced trees?
How does Linux boot? Explain in detail including device drivers, file system and memory initialization.
How do you detect deadlock? How do you prevent Deadlock?
Which IPC mechanisms have you used/implemented?
Explain blocking and non-blocking calls?
What are synchronous and asynchronous calls?
Socket calls used at server and client side?
Why do we need to bind the address?
How do you delete nth node? Don’t use temp variable to copy data, instead adjust only the links.
How do you implement a double linked list? What is the advantage of it?


